 
Ruby blogs have exploded over the past year and, given sufficient hunting, you can unearth hundreds of blogs sharing bits of Ruby code, describing new techniques, or speculating on Ruby's future.

h3. Mining for Ruby Blogs

"*Ruby on del.icio.us*":http://del.icio.us/tag/ruby: Ruby and Rails are consistently one of the top fifty tags on del.icio.us, a popular link sharing site.  Watch the "ruby":http://del.icio.us/tag/ruby tag for incoming obscure links and its "popularity chart":http://del.icio.us/popular/ruby for recent upcomers in the Ruby community.

"*Ruby on Technorati*":http://technorati.com/search/ruby: Technorati's search for _"Ruby"_ yields the most recent posts across the blogs covered in its index.

*Planets*: some planets (online specialized feeds agregators) have been running for years now. A few of them providing convenient content:
* "Ruby Corner":http://rubycorner.com
* "Planet Ruby":http://planetruby.0x42.net/
* "PlanetRubyOnRails.org":http://www.planetrubyonrails.org/
* "PlanetRubyOnRails.com":http://www.planetrubyonrails.com/

h3. Blogs of Note

A few notable blogs stand out for the frequency and immediacy of their updates.

* "*O'Reilly Ruby*":http://oreillynet.com/ruby/ is a group blog with pertinent Ruby tutorials and interviews with interesting folks from around the community.
* "*Riding Rails*":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/ is the official group blog of the Ruby on Rails team.  If you are running Rails, this blog is essential for notification of security updates and an overall view of the wide Rails community.
* "*Ruby Inside*":http://www.rubyinside.com/ announces interesting applications and libraries from throughout the world, both Ruby and Rails.
* "*Matz' Blog*":http://www.rubyist.net/~matz/ is a Japanese blog written by Ruby's creator.  Even if you can't read all of it, it's good to know he's right there!

h3. Spreading the Word

If you've got a Ruby blog you've started, it's wise to link the blog on "del.icio.us":http://del.icio.us with the _ruby_ tag.  You might also contact the weblogs above, if you are covering a topic they'd be interested in.  (Obviously, if it's not Rails-related, then the _Riding Rails_ crew may not be as interested -- but you never know.)

Ruby is also a common topic on "Digg":http://digg.com/programming, "Slashdot":http://developers.slashdot.org/, "reddit":http://www.reddit.com/r/ruby, and "Hacker News":http://news.ycombinator.com/, in their respective programming news.  If you find some brilliant code out there, be sure to let them know!